[embedded-postgres](../README.md) / [Exports](../modules.md) / PostgresOptions

# Interface: PostgresOptions

The options that are optionally specified for launching the Postgres database.

## Table of contents

### Properties

- [authMethod](PostgresOptions.md#authmethod)
- [createPostgresUser](PostgresOptions.md#createpostgresuser)
- [databaseDir](PostgresOptions.md#databasedir)
- [initdbFlags](PostgresOptions.md#initdbflags)
- [onError](PostgresOptions.md#onerror)
- [onLog](PostgresOptions.md#onlog)
- [password](PostgresOptions.md#password)
- [persistent](PostgresOptions.md#persistent)
- [port](PostgresOptions.md#port)
- [postgresFlags](PostgresOptions.md#postgresflags)
- [user](PostgresOptions.md#user)

## Properties

### authMethod

• **authMethod**: ``"scram-sha-256"`` \| ``"password"`` \| ``"md5"``

The authentication method to use when authenticating against Postgres.
Defaults to `password`

#### Defined in

types.ts:16

___

### createPostgresUser

• **createPostgresUser**: `boolean`

Postgres does not allow binaries to be run by root. In case you're
running in root-only enviroments, such as Docker containers, you may need
to create an extra user on your system in order to be able to call the binaries.

NOTE: This WILL irreversibly modify your host system. The effects are
somewhat minor, but it's still recommend to only use this in Docker containers.

Defaults to `false`.

#### Defined in

types.ts:45

___

### databaseDir

• **databaseDir**: `string`

The location where the data should be persisted to. Defaults to: `./data/db`

#### Defined in

types.ts:6

___

### initdbFlags

• **initdbFlags**: `string`[]

Pass any additional flags to the initdb process. You can find all
available flags here:
https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-initdb.html. Flags should be
passed as a string array, e.g. `["--debug"]` or `["--locale=en-GB"]` 

Defaults to `[]`

#### Defined in

types.ts:27

___

### onError

• **onError**: (`messageOrError`: `unknown`) => `void`

#### Type declaration

▸ (`messageOrError`): `void`

Pass in a custom error logging handler. This will catch and stderr
results coming in from the postgres and initdb processes. Defaults to
`console.error`

##### Parameters

| Name | Type |
| :------ | :------ |
| `messageOrError` | `unknown` |

##### Returns

`void`

#### Defined in

types.ts:53

___

### onLog

• **onLog**: (`message`: `string`) => `void`

#### Type declaration

▸ (`message`): `void`

Pass in a custom logging handler. This will relay and console messages
that are generated by the postgres and initdb processes. Defaults to
`console.log`

##### Parameters

| Name | Type |
| :------ | :------ |
| `message` | `string` |

##### Returns

`void`

#### Defined in

types.ts:49

___

### password

• **password**: `string`

The password for logging into the Postgres database. Defaults to `password`

#### Defined in

types.ts:13

___

### persistent

• **persistent**: `boolean`

Whether all data should be left in place when the database is shut down.
Defaults to `true`.

#### Defined in

types.ts:19

___

### port

• **port**: `number`

The port where the Postgres database should be listening. Defaults to:
 `5432`

#### Defined in

types.ts:9

___

### postgresFlags

• **postgresFlags**: `string`[]

Pass any additional flags to the postgres process. You can find all
available flags here:
https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-postgres.html. Flags should
be passed as a string array, e.g. `["--debug"]` or `["--locale=en-GB"]`.

Defaults to `[]`.

#### Defined in

types.ts:34

___

### user

• **user**: `string`

The username for logging into the Postgres database. Defaults to `postgres`

#### Defined in

types.ts:11
